README.md, before:

# jstruct [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sebinsua/jstruct.png)](https://travis-ci.org/sebinsua/jstruct) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/jstruct.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/jstruct)
> :bulb: Quick and easy JSON transformations.

Jstruct allows quick and easy JSON transformations through the use of a declarative JSON DSL.

```javascript
import j, { sel } from 'jstruct';
import { curry } from 'ramda';

// ... getAccount() definition

const prefix = curry((pre, str) => pre + str);
const format = j({
  id: 'account/id',
  name: 'account/name',
  hasAddress: sel.isNotEmpty('account/address'),
  lastPaymentAmount: sel('account/paymentHistory[0]/amount', prefix('£'))
});

getAccount().then(format);
// ->
// {
//   id: 5,
//   name: 'Seb',
//   hasAddress: true,
//   lastPaymentAmount: '£50'
// }
```

## Why?

Converting between different data representations in JavaScript is easier than many languages because of the concise and declarative JSON. However, currently [both imperative and functional approaches create unnecessarily verbose code](https://github.com/sebinsua/jstruct/wiki/Premise).

## Usage

#### `j(definition, object)`

This accepts two arguments: `definition`, the definition of the object that should be returned from the transformation, and `object` the data that should be transformed.

A definition is a deep key-value object in which the values are all selector strings/instances - the former being converted into the latter on execution.

This function is [curried by default](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Currying). If you do not supply all of the arguments required for computation it will return a function with the arguments already supplied bound to it.

This makes it very simple to create formatting functions that expect objects and return transformations of the objects passed in.

e.g.

```javascript
[{ key: 1 }, { key: 2 }, { missesKey: 3 }].map(j({ keyExists: j.exists('key') }));
// -> [ { keyExists: true }, { keyExists: true }, { keyExists: false } ]
```

#### `j.sel(selector[, transformationFn])`

This creates an instance of `Selector` from a string. It may optionally have a transformation function passed into it with the following method signature `function (valueToBeTransformed) { return transformedValue; }`.

Examples of valid selectors are:

```
a-selector
a/deeply/nested/selector
a/deeply/nested/array-item[5]
array[0][1][2]
```

## Installation
```shell
npm install [--save] jstruct;
```

Commit message:

Simple descriptions of special selectors.

README.md, after:

# jstruct [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sebinsua/jstruct.png)](https://travis-ci.org/sebinsua/jstruct) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/jstruct.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/jstruct)
> :bulb: Quick and easy JSON transformations.

Jstruct allows quick and easy JSON transformations through the use of a declarative JSON DSL.

```javascript
import j, { sel } from 'jstruct';
import { curry } from 'ramda';

// ... getAccount() definition

const prefix = curry((pre, str) => pre + str);
const format = j({
  id: 'account/id',
  name: 'account/name',
  hasAddress: sel.isNotEmpty('account/address'),
  lastPaymentAmount: sel('account/paymentHistory[0]/amount', prefix('£'))
});

getAccount().then(format);
// ->
// {
//   id: 5,
//   name: 'Seb',
//   hasAddress: true,
//   lastPaymentAmount: '£50'
// }
```

## Why?

Converting between different data representations in JavaScript is easier than many languages because of the concise and declarative JSON. However, currently [both imperative and functional approaches create unnecessarily verbose code](https://github.com/sebinsua/jstruct/wiki/Premise).

## Usage

#### `j(definition, object)`

This accepts two arguments: `definition`, the definition of the object that should be returned from the transformation, and `object` the data that should be transformed.

A definition is a deep key-value object in which the values are all selector strings/instances - the former being converted into the latter on execution.

This function is [curried by default](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Currying). If you do not supply all of the arguments required for computation it will return a function with the arguments already supplied bound to it.

This makes it very simple to create formatting functions that expect objects and return transformations of the objects passed in.

e.g.

```javascript
[{ key: 1 }, { key: 2 }, { missesKey: 3 }].map(j({ keyExists: j.exists('key') }));
// -> [ { keyExists: true }, { keyExists: true }, { keyExists: false } ]
```

#### `j.sel(selector[, transformationFn])`

This creates an instance of `Selector` from a string. It may optionally have a transformation function passed into it with the following method signature `function (valueToBeTransformed) { return transformedValue; }`.

Examples of valid selectors are:

```
a-selector
a/deeply/nested/selector
a/deeply/nested/array-item[5]
array[0][1][2]
```

It is also possible to pass in an array of selectors.

### Helpers

On addition to `sel(selector, transformFn)` there are also special selectors that handle certain use cases.

These are:

#### `exists(selector)`

Returns `true` or `false` dependent on whether the value at the end of the selector is not `null` or `undefined`.

#### `first(selectors)`

Returns the first value of the array returned by the selector(s). This is useful when you want the value to be the first value found within given an array of selectors.

#### `isNotEmpty(selector)`

Returns `true` or `false` dependent on whether the object at the end of the selector is empty or not.

#### `defaultsTo(selector, defaultValue)`

Returns either the value found at the selector or the value passed in as the second argument.

## Installation
```shell
npm install [--save] jstruct;
```
